---
layout: post
category: citation
title: "Manual for Adulting Citations"
permalink: /citations/campus/

date: 2017-09-19 14:19:33 -0500

front-pic: Adulting-front.jpg
social-pic: Adulting-social.jpg
pdf: Adulting_Manual_Web.pdf
product: /campus/

issues: Abortion
type: Publication
target-age: Teens, Young Adults, Adults
target-audience: College Students, High School Students, Pro-life Organizations, Sidewalk Counselors, Youth Group
language: English

comment: true
share: true
---
<p><strong>How ADULT is Your Brain? </strong>
<ol><li> &ldquo;Number of Abortions - Abortion Counters.&rdquo; <em>Number of Abortions in US &amp; Worldwide</em>. Web.  
</li><li> Moore, Keith L, Persaud, T.V.N. <em>The Developing Human: Clinically Oriented Embryology 6TH Ed.</em> W.B. Saunders, 1998. Print.  
</li><li> &ldquo;Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973).&rdquo; <em>Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973)</em>. Web.  
</li><li> &ldquo;The Unchoice: Forced Abortion in America Coercion Can Escalate to Violence, Even Murder.&rdquo; Web.  
</li><li> &ldquo;Characteristics of U.S. Abortion Patients in 2014 and Changes Since 2008.&rdquo; <em>Guttmacher Institute. </em>Web.  
</li><li> Gissler, M. &ldquo;Suicides After Pregnancy in Finland, 1987&ndash;94: register linkage study&rdquo;, Hemminki, Elina, research professor, Lonnqvist, Jouko, research professor BMJ 1996; 313 doi: <u>http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmj.313.7070.1431</u> (Published 07 December 1996). Web.  
</li><li> Mansfield C, Hopfer S, Marteau TM. &ldquo;Termination rates after prenatal diagnosis of Down syndrome, spina bifida, anencephaly, and Turner and Klinefelter syndromes: a systematic literature review. European Concerted Action: DADA (Decision-making After the Diagnosis of a fetal Abnormality)&rdquo; Prenatal Diagnosis. 1999 Sep;19(9):808-12. Review. Web.  
</li><li> &ldquo;Facts About Abortion, Protecting Black Life, Planned Parenthood, the largest abortion provider in the country, targets African Americans by locating 62% (approx. 2 out of every 3) of their abortion facilities in black communities.&rdquo; Life Issues Connector, October 2012. Web. Brown, Judie. &ldquo;Abortion and Racism in America.&rdquo; June 28, 2013. Web.  
</li><li> Sanger, Margaret. &ldquo;Woman and the New Race,&rdquo; Chapter 18 &ldquo;The Goal.&rdquo; Web. Online Book. </li></ol></p>
<p><strong>Abortion is Harmful </strong>
<ol><li> Gissler,M, Karalis, E, Ulander,V.M. &ldquo;Suicide rate after induced abortion decreased in Finland after Current Care Guidelines&rdquo; <em>The European Journal of Public Health</em>, DOI: First published online: 31 October 2014. Web.  
</li><li> Garfinkel,B. et al. &ldquo;Stress, Depression and Suicide: A Study of Adolescents in Minnesota,&rdquo; <em>Responding to High Risk Youth</em> (University of Minnesota: Minnesota Extension Service, 1986). 
</li><li> Cougle, Jesse R., Reardon, David C., Coleman, Priscilla K. &ldquo;Depression associated with abortion and childbirth: a long-term analysis of the NLSY cohort.&rdquo; <em>Med Science Monitor</em> 2003; 9(4): CR105-112 ID: 4701 Published: 2003-04-23. Web.  
</li><li> &ldquo;Abortion Risks: A list of major physical complications related to abortion&rdquo; Afterabortion.org. Web.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Coleman, P.K., Maxey, C.D., Rue, V.M., Coyle, C.T. &ldquo;Associations between voluntary and involuntary forms of perinatal loss and child maltreatment among low-income mothers.&rdquo; <em>Acta Paediatrica.</em> 2005 Oct;94(10):1476-83. Web.  
</li><li> Lee,S.J., Steer,P.J.,Filippi, V. &ldquo;Seasonal patterns and preterm birth: a systematic review of the literature and an analysis in a London-based cohort&rdquo; <em>British Journal of Medicine</em>, DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2006.01055.x. Web. </li></ol></p>
<p><strong>Get the Facts Before You Decide &shy;</strong>
<ol><li>Sadler, T.W, Langman, Jan. <em>Langman&rsquo;s Medical Embryology</em>; Baltimore: Williams &amp; Wilkins, 1995. Edition: English: 7th ed., international ed. Print.  
</li><li>Mansfield, Caroline, Hopfer, Suellen, Marteau, Theresa M. &ldquo;Termination rates after prenatal diagnosis of Down syndrome, spina bifida, anencephaly, and Turner and Klinefelter syndromes: a systematic literature review,&rdquo; Article first published online: 22 SEP 1999 DOI.  
</li><li>Carnevale, Alessandra, Rub&eacute;n Lisker, Antonio R. Villa, and Salvador Armendares. &ldquo;Attitudes of Mexican Geneticists towards Prenatal Diagnosis and Selective Abortion.&rdquo; <em>American Journal of Medical Genetics Am. J. Med. Genet.</em> 75.4 (1998): 426-31. Web.  
</li><li>&ldquo;Prenatal diagnosis of the fragile X syndrome: loss of mutation owing to a double recombinant or gene conversion event at the FMR1 locus&rdquo;, <em>Journal of Medical Genetics</em> Volume 34(11) November 1997 pp 924-926.  
</li><li>&ldquo;Is there ever a moral duty to use prenatal diagnosis and selective abortion?&rdquo;, <em>Gene Letter</em>, <em>The</em>. Volume 2, Issue 1, August 1997. Web.  
</li><li>Rue, Vincent M., Coleman, Priscilla K., Rue, James J., Reardon, David C. &ldquo;Induced abortion and traumatic stress: A preliminary comparison of American and Russian women&rdquo; <em>Med Sci Monit</em> 2004; 10(10): SR5-16 PMID: 11784. Print.  
</li><li>Samandari, G., S. L. Martin, and S. Schiro. &ldquo;Homicide Among Pregnant and Postpartum Women in the United States: A Review of the Literature.&rdquo; <em>Trauma, Violence, &amp; Abuse</em> 11.1 (2010): 42-54. Print.  
</li><li>&ldquo;The War on Baby Girls, Gendercide.&rdquo; <em>The Economist</em>. The Economist Newspaper, 06 Mar. 2010. Web.  
</li><li>Roberts, Sam. &ldquo;U.S. Births Hint at Bias for Boys in Some Asians.&rdquo; <em>The New York Times</em>. The New York Times, 14 June 2009. Web. </li></ol></p>
<p><strong>The Over Population Myth </strong>
<ol><li> Bailey, Ronald. Earth Report 2000: Revisiting the True State of the Planet. 2000., 1999 Edited by: Ronald Bailey. McGraw-Hill (ISBN-13: 978-ISBN-10: 0071342605).  
</li><li> Longman, Philip. The Empty Cradle: How Falling Birthrates Threaten World Prosperity. April 2004. (ISBN-10: 0465050506 ISBN-13: 978-0465050505).  
</li><li> &ldquo;World Population Prospects: The 2004 Revision Analytical Report&rdquo; United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs Population Division 2004. Web.  
</li><li> Howe, Neil, Jackson, Richard. &ldquo;Global Aging and the Crisis of the 2020s.&rdquo; Center for Strategic and International Studies. 2008. Web.  
</li><li> &ldquo;COUNTRY COMPARISON :: TOTAL FERTILITY RATE.&rdquo; <em>The World Fact Book</em>. Central Intelligence Agency, 2015. Web.  
</li><li> &ldquo;World Population Prospects Key Findings and Advance Tables 2015 Revision&rdquo; United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs Population Division. 2015.  
</li><li> <em>Demographic Winter: the decline of the human family</em>. Dir. Rick Stout. SRB Documentary, LLC, 2008. DVD.  
</li><li> Graham, Stephen &ldquo;Germans Get Incentives for Having Babies&rdquo; The Washington Post. Jan. 4, 2007.  
</li><li> Chivers, C. J. &ldquo;Putin Urges Plan to Reverse Slide in the Birth Rate.&rdquo; <em>The New York Times</em>. The New York Times, 10 May 2006. Web.  
</li><li> Murphy, Clare. &ldquo;The EU&rsquo;s Baby Blues.&rdquo; <em>BBC News</em>. BBC, 27 Mar. 2006. Web.  
</li><li> Bryant, Elizabeth. &ldquo;European nations offer incentives to have kids&rdquo; San Francisco Chronicle. August 10, 2008.  
</li><li> Meyer, Michael. &ldquo;Birth Dearth&rdquo; Newsweek, Inc. Sept. 27, 2004. www.newsweek.com  
</li><li> Jackson, Richard, Neil Howe, and Tobias Peter. <em>The </em><em>Global Aging Preparedness Index</em>. Center for Strategic and International Studies, 2013.  
</li><li> Longman, Phillip. <em>The Empty Cradle: How Falling Birthrates Threaten World Prosperity and What to Do about It</em>. New York: Basic , a Member of the Perseus Group, 2004. Print.  
</li><li> Jackson, Richard, Howe, Neil, Strauss, Rebecca, Nakashima, Keisuke. &ldquo;The Graying of the Great Powers Demography and Geopolitics in the 21st Century.&rdquo; Center for Strategic and International Studies. May 2008.  
</li><li> Shorto, Russell. &ldquo;No Babies?&rdquo; <em>The New York Times</em>. The New York Times, 28 June 2008. Web. </li></ol></p>
<p><strong>Abortion and Breast Cancer </strong><ol><li>&ldquo;Reproductive Breast Cancer Risks and Breast Lobule Maturation.&rdquo; <em>Reproductive Breast Cancer Risks Brochure</em>. Breast Cancer Prevention Institute, 2007. Web.</li></ol></p>
<p><strong>What About Rape and Incest? </strong>
<ol><li> &ldquo;The &lsquo;Hard Cases&rsquo; of Abortion: A Pro-life Response 2000.&rdquo; The Family Research Council, 801 G Street, NW Washington, DC 2001. Print.  
</li><li> Mall, David, Watts; Walter F. The Psychological Aspects of Abortion. Stritch School of Medicine. Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Washington D.C. University Publications of America, 1979.  
</li><li> &ldquo;The &lsquo;Hard Cases&rsquo; of Abortion: A Pro-life Response 2000&rdquo; by the Family Research Council, 801 G Street, NW Washington, DC 20001.  
</li><li> Reardon, David C. Makimaa, Julie, Sobie, Amy, Victims and Victors: Speaking Out about Their Pregnancies, Abortions, and Children Resulting from Sexual Assault, Acorn Books. January 1st 2000. </li></ol></p>
<p><strong>Decison Types: Not Adult </strong><ol><li><a href="http://www.fatherhoodforever.org/">http://www.fatherhoodforever.org/</a>.</li></ol></p>
<p><strong>When Does Life Begin?</strong> <ol><li> &ldquo;The Drama of Fetal Development&rdquo;, <em>American Baby. </em>Jan. 1989. p. 45. Print.  
</li><li> Moore and Persaud, <em>The Developing Human-Clinically Oriented Embryology.</em> 2nd ed. W.B. Saunders Company 1973 p. 310. Print.  
</li><li> Hamlin, H. &ldquo;Life or Death by EEG,&rdquo; <em>JAMA.</em> Oct. 12, 1964, p. 113 Print.  
</li><li> Sadler, T.W. <em>Langman&rsquo;s Medical Embryology.</em> 7th ed., Baltimore: Williams &amp; Wilkins, 1995. p. 341 Print.  
</li><li> deVries, J.I.P. et al, &ldquo;The Emergence of Fetal Behavior.&rdquo; <em>Early Human Development. </em>Vol 12. 1985, p. 108 Print.  
</li><li> <em>Mayo Clinic Family Health Book.</em> 3rd ed. Harper Resource, 2003. p. 268 Print.  
</li><li> Valman, Pearson. &ldquo;What the Fetus Feels.&rdquo; <em>British Medical Journal.</em> p. 234 Print.  
</li><li> <em>Mayo Clinic Family Health Book.</em> 3rd ed. Harper Resource, 2003, p. 269 Print.  
</li><li> Moore, Keith L., Persaud, T.V.N. <em>The Developing Human. Clinically Oriented Embryology</em> p.  
</li><li> Flanagan, Geraldine Lux, <em>Beginning Life</em>, DK Publishing, 1996 pp. 59-65.  
</li><li> Cunningham, MacDonald, Grant, <em>Williams Obstetrics.</em> 18th ed., p. 90 &amp; 103 Print.  
</li><li> Flanagan, Geraldine Lux, <em>Beginning Life </em>DK Publishing , 1996 Limited p. 68.  
</li><li> Health &amp; Wellness Resource Center, &ldquo;Normal Growth of a Baby During Pregnancy.&rdquo; <em>Clinical Reference Systems Annual.</em> 2001. p.1391.  
</li><li> Gordon, Debra MD. &ldquo;Pregnancy.&rdquo; <em>The Gale Encyclopedia of Medicine.</em> 2nd ed., pp. 2694-2695.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Sassone, Robert L. &ldquo;Interview with Prof. Sir A William Liliey.&rdquo; <em>The Tiniest Humans.</em></li></ol></p>
<p><strong>What&rsquo;s the Difference?</strong> 
	<ol><li>Adapted with permission from: Klusendorf, Scott. The Case for Life; Equipping Christians to Engage the Culture. Crossway. 2009.</li></ol></p>
<p><strong>Does a connection between ABORTION &amp; RACE exist?</strong> <ol><li> Guttmacher Institute. Guttmacher Institute, 21 Apr. 2016. Web. https://www.guttmacher.org/report/characteristics-us-abortion-patients-2014#full-article.  
</li><li> Population Distribution by Race/Ethnicity. Kaiser Family Foundation, Mar. 2015. Web. http://kff.org/other/state-indicator/distribution-by-raceethnicity/.</li></ol></p>
<p><strong>BIRTH CONTROL &amp; ABORTION</strong> <ol><li>&ldquo;Products.&rdquo; <em>Janssen United States</em>. 2016. Web.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Pfizer Inc., Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products &ldquo;Depo-Provera US Physician Prescribing Information&rdquo; May 2006.  
</li><li> &ldquo;NuvaRing &reg; (etonogestrel/ethinyl Estradiol Vaginal Ring) Initial U.S. Approval: 2001.&rdquo; 2014. Web.  
</li><li> &ldquo;MIRENA (levonorgestrel - Releasing Intrauterine System) Initial U.S. Approval: 2000.&rdquo; Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, Oct. 2015. Web.  
</li><li> Larimore, W. L., and Joseph B. Stanford. &ldquo;Postfertilization Effects of Oral Contraceptives and Their Relationship to Informed Consent.&rdquo; <em>Archives of Family Medicine</em> 9.2 (2000): 126-33. Print.  
</li><li> Obstetrics &amp; Gynecology 26.3 (1965). Print.  
</li><li> &ldquo;Products.&rdquo; <em>Janssen United States</em>. 2016. Web. </li></ol></p>
<p><strong>ABORTION METHODS: Surgical</strong> <ol><li> Marshal, Sarah, MD, Rebecca H. Allen, MD, MPH, and Kirtly Jones, MD. &ldquo;Manual and Vacuum Aspiration for Abortion.&rdquo; <em>Women&rsquo;s Health</em>. WebMD, 14 Nov. 2014. Web.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> &ldquo;An Abortion Doctor Describes a D&amp;E - ClinicQuotes.&rdquo; <em>ClinicQuotes</em>. 31 Aug. 2012. Web.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> United States. Cong. House. U.S. House Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice. <em>Testimony of Jill L. Stanek , RN HR 1797, Pain - Capable Unborn Child Protection Act U.S. House Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice May 23, 2013</em>. 113th Cong. H. Bill. Print.  
</li><li> &ldquo;Abortion-Choices: Surgical Abortion.&rdquo; <em>WebMD</em>. WebMD, 4 June 2014. Web.  
</li><li> &ldquo;Abortion Procedures During First, Second and Third Trimester.&rdquo; <em>American Pregnancy Association</em>. May 2015. Web. </li></ol></p>
<p><strong>ABORTION METHODS: Medical</strong> <ol><li> Polis, Chelsea B., Kate Schaffer, Kelly Blanchard, Anna Glasier, Cynthia C. Harper, and David A. Grimes. &ldquo;Advance Provision of Emergency Contraception for Pregnancy Prevention.&rdquo; <em>Obstetrics &amp; Gynecology</em> 110.6 (2007): 1379-388. Print.  
</li><li> Paton, David. &ldquo;Random Behaviour or Rational Choice? Family Planning, Teenage Pregnancy and STIs.&rdquo; Proc. of Royal Economic Society Conference, Swansea. Apr. 2004. Web.  
</li><li> &ldquo;Plan B One-Step&reg;  How It Works.&rdquo; <em>Plan B One-Step&reg;  How It Works</em>. Web.  
</li><li> &ldquo;ella (ulipristal Acetate) Tablet Initial U.S. Approval: 2010.&rdquo; FDA, US Government, Aug. 2010. Web.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> Ibid.  
</li><li> &ldquo;RU486Facts.org - Medical Information about RU-486 (Mifepristone).&rdquo; <em>RU486Facts.org - Medical Information about RU-486 (Mifepristone)</em>. Web.  
</li><li> Ibid. </li></ol></p>